Importance
==========

We started to work on Waartaa to solve our own problems and frustration with
the existing IRC tools. Soon, we found that, we’re not only trying to solve
just our problems, but problems for many. Waartaa has attracted a lot of
attention since the very beginning. People seem to have hope in Waartaa.
Waartaa is also being considered as a community communication tool in the
Fedora Next project. It's not just limited to Fedora. Other open source
communities can also setup Waartaa and cater this service to their community
members. Waartaa also got into GSoC 2014 from the Fedoraproject.
Inspite of Waartaa being very new, it attracted a lot of GSoC proposals (12).
I believe the reason for this’d be that people can relate to our mission.

Lately, with the advent of new team communication and collaboration tools,
there has been a steady switch from IRC to those proprietary communication
platforms. IRC is a great protocol and has been working great for decades.
However, for team collaboration, text chat is not just enough. We, at Waartaa,
believe that by building required features: notifications, unique identity,
24x7 idling, audio/video chat, powerful search, easy 3rd party services (VCS,
task management tools, etc.) integration with no programming effort, etc.
around IRC and bringing them under one hood, we can provide a competitive one
stop open source communication solution to the world.

We are building Waartaa as an open source choice for communication and
collaboration tools, aiming to protect user privacy, giving them ownership of
their data along with a good user experience. We want to involve the community
to help us in making decisions to grow Waartaa.
